> Difference between process and thread?
* Process: Program which is under execution ,It has its own control block,stack and address space. using message passing and shared memory, process communicate between them. 
*  Thread: segment of process, it doesnot have a control block of its own. It shares parents control block code section data section and files are shared.Less context switch time.Process execution is faster f we use multiple threads because processes are run parallely using multiple threads.Each thread has its own stack space registers and PC.Communication between processes is easy compared to between the processes.
> Benefits of Multithreaded processes in OS?
* It increases responsiveness because multiple threads run parallely and since they have shared memory communication is easy and context switch time is also less when multiple threads are present more efficiency since all the tasks handled at the same time by worker threads.Cost is less compared to multiprocess.
> What is multi programming?
* Whenever a process goes for block/wait state the cpu remains idle in a non multi programming system, but in a multi programming system it is not like that cpu handles other processes also so more efficiency. Switching the processes
> What is multi processing?
* Multi Processing is used when we need to execute more than one process smultaneously. Having multiple processors
> What is multi Tasking?
* Multi Tasking is used to run multiple processes by defining a time quantum after which processes change
> Multi Threading example from gfg
* We can think of threads as child processes that share the parent process resources but execute independently. Now take the case of a GUI. Say we are performing a calculation on the GUI (which is taking very long time to finish). Now we can not interact with the rest of the GUI until this command finishes its execution. To be able to interact with the rest of the GUI, this command of calculation should be assigned to a separate thread. So at this point of time, 2 threads will be executing i.e. one for calculation, and one for the rest of the GUI. Hence here in a single process, we used multiple threads for multiple functionality.
> What is virtual Memory?
* 


### Memory
* Registers->Cache->MainMemory->Secondary Memory
> Contigious allocation
* Here memory is allocated to processes without breaking it into parts
* Less access time
* External fragmentation(because even though we have space some times we can't allocate space to a process because we don't have it at one place)
1. Fixed size-Partitioning(Not divided into equal parts): Here size is fixed before so it suffers from internal fragmentation when process size is not equal to partion size.
2. Variable size Partitioning: Here partioning is not done before, Based on process the partitioning is done.No internal fragmentation.Partitioning is made at runtime
> Non-Contigious Allocation
* Here memory is allocated to processes by breaking into parts
* More access time if proper data structure is not used
* No external fragmentation
* Designing is complicated
> First fit,Best fit and worst fit
* It allocates the space for the process at a place which has more or equal to the process size.(External Fragmentation may occur)
* Best fit checks for the whole memory and allocates the least sized partition which has sufficient one.
1. Paging
* Physical address space is divided into frames and logical address space is divided into pages.
* (https://media.geeksforgeeks.org/wp-content/uploads/paging-3.jpg)
* page table is used to store frame no(base add) in main memory where index gives the offset.
* memory access time is twice(to access frame no and access data)

```
cpu--- LA(p,d)

          |  |

          |  |____________________________

          |                                +------->physical address in mm

          |                                |         

       Page table-----frameno(base address)|
```
2. Segmentation


* Relocation register: Stores the base address of process
* Logical address:Generated by cpu for execution
* Physical address:Actual location in the memory
* LA+Relocation register->PA
* MMU : LA->PA